# DALL-E Clone

DALL-E Clone is a project that replicates the functionality of OpenAI's DALL-E, a neural network-based image generation model. This project aims to provide users with the ability to generate images from textual descriptions using the OpenAI API. The project consists of a client-side application built with React and TypeScript, and a server-side application built with Node.js and Express.

## Objectives

This project serves as an educational exercise to deepen web development skills by implementing and integrating various technologies such as OpenAI's DALL-E API, MongoDB, and cloud services.

## Project Structure

The project is divided into two main directories: `client` and `server`.

### Client

The `client` directory contains the front-end code for the application. It is built using React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. 

### Server

The `server` directory contains the back-end code for the application. It is built using Node.js, Express, and MongoDB.

## Installation Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Node.js and npm installed on your machine.
- MongoDB instance running (you can use MongoDB Atlas for a cloud-based solution).

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dalle-clone.git
cd dalle-clone
```

### Setting Up the Server
1. Navigate to the `server` directory:
```cd server```

2. Create a `.env` file in the `server` directory and add your environment variables:

```OPENAI_API_KEY="your_openai_api_key"
MONGODB_URL="your_mongodb_url"
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME="your_cloudinary_cloud_name"
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_API_KEY="your_cloudinary_api_key"
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_API_SECRET="your_cloudinary_api_secret"
```
3. Install the server dependencies:
```npm install```

4. Start the server:
```npm start```

### Setting Up the Client
1. Navigate to the `client` directory:
```cd client```
2. Install the client dependencies:
```npm install```
3. Start the client application:
```npm run dev```
4. Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`.

## Usage
1. Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`.
2. Use the interface to create and share posts with images generated by DALL-E

## Features
- Generate images from textual descriptions using the OpenAI API.
- Share generated images with the community.
- Browse and search through a collection of generated images.

## Technologies Used
- Node.js
- Express
- MongoDB
- React
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- OpenAI API

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome. Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.